# Fractol
Fractol is a program that allows users to explore fractals through an interactive graphical interface. This project focuses on rendering the Julia and Mandelbrot sets, enabling infinite zoom functionality and offering visual effects with colors to highlight fractal depth. Additionally, users can customize certain rendering aspects through command-line options.

**What is a Fractal?**

A fractal is a complex geometric shape that exhibits self-similarity at different scales. The Mandelbrot set is generated by repeatedly applying the formula  **zn+1​ = zn2 + c** starting with **z0 = 0**. If the sequence remains bounded, the point belongs to the set, forming intricate patterns. The Julia set follows the same equation but uses a fixed complex number **c** while varying the initial value **z0**,  resulting in different fractal shapes depending on the chosen **c**

## Key features
 **Support for fractal sets:**
  - Julia (customizable via CLI)
  - Mandelbrot
    
 **Interactive zoom** using the mouse wheel
 
**Graphical representation** in a window using MiniLibX.

**Color effects** to visualize depth.

Clean program exit when pressing **ESC** or clicking the window's close button.
## Controls

**Mouse wheel** :  Zoom in/out on the image

**ESC**: Closes the window and exits the program.

**Window close button (X)**: Closes the window and exits the program.

**Arguments:**

**fractal_type:**  Defines the type of fractal to display. For example:

- Mandelbrot 
- Julia 

**[options]:** Additional parameters to cutomize the display (for Julia)

## Usage

**Compilation**

```bash
make
```

**Execution**
```bash
./fractal <fractal_type> [options]
```
To display the Mandelbrot set:

```bash
./fractal Mandelbrot
```

To display the julia set:

```bash
./fractal julia -0.7 0.27015
```
